# Reviews

One type of static test is a review, which usually applies to some sort of
document or documents.

While you're probably very familiar with the term "review" generally, in the
world of software testing it can be applied very informally for any sort of
review process, but can also be a very formal review process with designated
roles, process and formats of what's produced.

As part of this course and your software tester apprenticeship, we're not going
to get into the detailed ISO standard for a formal review, but we will talk
about some of the things involved at a high level.

## Organisations & Formality

Different organisations will have different expectations around what a "review"
involves, from who needs to be involved, how it is run and what's produced along
the way.

The type of organisation may dictate some of this - those in more regulated
industries are perhaps more likely to have a formal review process to be
followed, whereas a start-up might be content with something far more informal.
It's also possible that different teams within an organisation have their own
processes.

Another factor may be the document type that's being reviewed. A different
process might exist, let's say, for reviewing a specification compared with
reviewing the manual aimed at the end users.

It's impossible to teach all the possible interpretations of "review" and what
those might involve, so it would be best to check with your future
organisation(s) and team(s) as to what processes they follow or require, if any.

## Formal Reviews

As before, we aren't going to get into the low-level details behind formal
review processes like [ISO
20246](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:20246:ed-1:v1:en) (provided
here for reference, not necessarily for you to go and read!).

Instead, we'll summarise some of the factors and variables in what might be
considered a more formal review of some documentation, with a particular focus
on what might be particularly applicable or useful *from a software tester's
perspective*.

### Roles

Formal reviews often define specific roles and responsibilities, such as an
author - the person who created whatever is being reviewed. Other roles could
include a facilitator, someone to manage the whole process, through to the
reviewer(s) who are actually doing the review of the content.

From a testing point of view, it's interesting to think about the skill set(s)
of those who are doing the review. Here's a quick thought-exercise for you -
which of these people do you think would be able to add value in a review?

* A person who is very familiar with the project and has previously done reviews
  on similar documents
* A person who knows nothing about the documentation and is coming in with no
  existing expectations or knowledge

<details>
  <summary>Click here once you've had a chance to think about those two people and their abilities to add value during a review.</summary>

If you found some resemblance to "white box" and "black box" there, that's a
nice comparison to make - like those two test techniques, people with experience
bring in particular value but so do people who are coming in with clear minds,
fresh eyes and no preconceived ideas. Getting multiple people to do a review who
have different perspectives/experiences/knowledge, will likely add more value
than fewer people, or many people but with similar skill sets.
</details>

### Review Process

There are different types of review to consider with different pros and cons
(usually thoroughness vs cost/time). A peer review can provide a quicker check
to find less complex problems or even generate new ideas. This type could be
modified to have the author walk the reviewer through the document - similar to
rubber ducking with explaining your code problem to an inanimate object, trying
to explain your document to someone else can also highlight problems.
Alternatively, the review could be done by specialists in that particular area,
and this is often where more formal reviews come in.

There are also different techniques for the review. Perhaps the reviewer(s) is
given little guidance, beginning quickly given no preparation is required,
perhaps exploring interesting ideas but also without specific direction or a
targeted effort. Perhaps a reviewer could be asked to look at the document from
a particular perspective - a user, a stakeholder, etc. Alternatively, there
could be a specific checklist to work through as the reviewer - once again, the
latter is likely to be for more formal reviews where the checklist defines
specific things that *must* be there.

## Reviewing Test-Specific Things

While the above is angled towards a review of things like functional
requirements documents and other materials produced outside of a test team, a
good review of a test plan (or similar) can be just as useful - don't forget
your own resources of test plans, test code, etc. can also be subject to human
*error* and hence contain their own *defects* that can end up affecting the
overall project's quality!

[Next Challenge](03_tools.md)

<!-- BEGIN GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->

---

**How was this resource?**  
[üò´](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fextending-testing&prefill_File=phase6%2F02_reviews.md&prefill_Sentiment=üò´) [üòï](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fextending-testing&prefill_File=phase6%2F02_reviews.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòï) [üòê](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fextending-testing&prefill_File=phase6%2F02_reviews.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòê) [üôÇ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fextending-testing&prefill_File=phase6%2F02_reviews.md&prefill_Sentiment=üôÇ) [üòÄ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fextending-testing&prefill_File=phase6%2F02_reviews.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòÄ)  
Click an emoji to tell us.

<!-- END GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->
